the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me
because the Lord has anointed me to
preach good tidings to the poor he has
sent me to heal the brokenhearted to
proclaim Liberty to the captives and the
opening of the prison to those who are
bound to proclaim the acceptable year of
the Lord
and the day of vengeance of our God to
comfort all who mourn to console those
who mourn in Zion to give them beauty
for Ashes the oil of joy for mourning
the garment of praise for the spirit of
heaviness that they may be called trees
of righteousness the planting of the
Lord that he may be glorified and they
shall rebuild the old ruins they shall
raise up the former desolations and they
shall repair the ruined cities the
desolations of many generations
strangers shall stand and feed your
flocks and the sons of the foreigner
shall be your Plowman and your vine
dressers but you shall be named the
priests of the Lord they shall call you
the servants of our God you shall eat
the riches of the Gentiles and in their
glory
you shall boast instead of your shame
you shall have double honor and instead
of confusion they shall rejoice in their
portion therefore in their land they
shall possess double everlasting joy
shall be theirs for I the Lord love
I hate robbery for burnt-offering I will
direct their work in truth and will make
with them an everlasting covenant their
descendants shall be known among the
Gentiles and their offspring among the
people all who see them shall
acknowledge them that they are the
posterity whom the Lord has blessed I
will greatly rejoice in the Lord my soul
shall be joyful in my god for he has
clothed me with the garments of
salvation he has covered me with the
robe of righteousness as a bridegroom
decks himself with ornaments and as a
bride adorns herself with her jewels for
as the earth brings forth its bud as the
garden causes the things that are sown
in it to spring forth so the Lord God
will cause righteousness and praise to
spring forth before all the nations